Here are some general tips ranging from starter tips to advanced ones
- Only take one of the ammo racks from the resupply pod - Sometimes other dwarfs like the scout saves their rack for later so even if there is a resupply pod with one ammo left, always ask before taking that one if you already got yours. Tip: If you run out of ammo too fast, work on your builds ammo efficiency.
- Don’t rage quit - Even if the game looks hopeless at some point, you can still do it, as long as you all stick together. Every dwarf that leaves makes it more difficult for the remaining ones. You can even kill a dreadnought with pickaxes :)
- Start with Hazard 3 and when you feel comfortable with your first class and the general movement in DRG and have bought some updates (probably around level 15), you can try Hazard 4. If it's still tough, just wait until your first promotion and you can safely host or join H4's and are able to contribute to the teams success. #greenbeard
- To get familiar with the space rig, take a look at the very good [Space Rig - Official Deep Rock Galactic Wiki (fandom.com)](https://deeprockgalactic.fandom.com/wiki/Space_Rig) article in the DRG wiki. #greenbeard
- Always mine every mineral, even if your bag is full. The scout will zoom around to collect minerals lying around anyway and you will save everyone time. Also keep collecting minerals if possible, even after the objective is met (e.g. morkite), as they will give you extra XP. This is especially good with XP modifiers or mineral mania. Exceptions: Deep Dives
- If you are not speed running, always explore all caves. There could be machine events, random spawns (bet-c, dreadnoughts, etc.) or just more gold and minerals to collect.
- When you are on a mission that requires to go back to the pod after finishing the objectives, follow the driller. This will avoid getting lost and the driller has some sweet drills to make a direct tunnel to the pod ;)
- You can always press M to open the mission selection, no need to go to the map hologram
- Know you classes role in each game mode. There are tasks that each class can do best. Although you are not forced to do these tasks, when playing in random lobbies, players expect at least a certain amount of tasks from the other dwarfs to be taken care of.
- Every enemy has a specific sound, try to learn at least the cave leech one, to have a chance to react to them
- Fall damage is not calculated by the height, but by your velocity - If you somehow (special power) gain a lot of speed, even from just 1 meter above the ground, you can easily die
- Tricks to avoid fall damage - There are multiple ways to cancel fall damage 1. Fall on a fellow dwarf 2. Fall on a ledge (quite difficult) 3. Fall on most enemies 4. Grab a line in mid air (keep F pressed) 5. Fall on a engineers platform (reduces the damage)
- Use different builds for different mission types - While on lower hazard levels it might not make a huge difference, on H4/5 and Elite Deep Dives, it can mean to win or lose the game if you have the wrong loadout.
- Mining minerals directly with the axe might not be the fastest way - When you have active beer or are in sandblasted corridors, it’s often faster to mine around a gold patch to
- Don't randomly order resupply pods - If there is enough nitra, order a pod, but try to keep at least 80 nitra as leftover and check your teams ammo before ordering a resupply pod
- Try to use up your ammunition equally - You can see your remaining ammo (and your teammate's) in the four bars when you take out your laser pointer. Try to not refill before having used up at least 2 of the 4 bars.
- Left over nitra doesn't give you anything, use it up for those tasty supplies!
- If you want to benchmark your a specific build, I recommend going solo H5 on Point Extraction with Bosco disabled and measure the time you can survive or it takes to complete the mission
- Big items like aquarqs or other chunks can be thrown. Use that to quickly move them around
